mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
for ^ x + 6 ^ x is equal to 9 ^ x solve
for all real values of x that satisfy
this equation
I think ritwik in India for suggesting
this problem it came from an IIT je
sample paper but I've also seen it
shared on the internet with the catch
phrase you should be able to solve this
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
we'll get started by dividing each term
by 4 to the power of X the first term
simplifies to be 1 the next term becomes
6 over 4 all raised to the power of X
and the third term becomes 9 over 4
raised to the power of X 6 over 4 is
equal to 3 over 2 and we'll substitute
that in 9 over 4 is equal to 3 over 2
the quantity squared and we'll
substitute that in we now simplify 3
over 2 squared all raised to the power
of X this becomes 3 over 2 all raised to
the power of 2x now make the
substitution that 3 over 2 raised to the
power of X is equal to you if we square
both sides of the equation we get 3 over
2 all raised to the power of 2x is equal
to u squared we thus have a quadratic
equation 1 plus u is equal to u squared
we'll move the terms to the right hand
side so we get 0 is equal to u squared
minus u minus 1 since u is equal to 3
over 2 all raised to the power of X we
need you to be greater than 0 because
three-halves raised to the power of x
will be a positive term we then use the
quadratic formula and simplify we get
that U is equal to the golden ratio 1
plus the square root of 5 all over 2 but
we're not done yet we want to solve for
x since three-halves raised to the power
of x is equal to u we want to solve for
x by taking the natural log of both
sides we can then bring the exponent
down and then solve for x by dividing
line the natural log of three-halves we
substitute in for u and we get our exact
answer x is equal to the natural log of
the golden ratio divided by the natural
log of three-halves and this simplifies
to be approximately one point one eight
seven
at first the problem was quite
intimidating but with some clever
substitutions we found the golden answer
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support
[Music]
you